#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass dinbrief
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout My Address
4317/3 Ansari Road, 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Darya Ganj, 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

New Delhi - 110003
\end_layout

\begin_layout Send To Address
German Academic Exchange Service, 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

2, Nyaya Marg Chanakyapuri 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

New Delhi – 110 021
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
October 27, 2013
\end_layout

\begin_layout Opening
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
textsc{Letter of Motivation}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And this is where you put the real stuff anyway! And this is where you put
 the real stuff anyway! And this is where you put the real stuff anyway!
 And this is where you put the real stuff anyway! And this is where you
 put the real stuff anyway! And this is where you put the real stuff anyway!
 And this is where you put the real stuff anyway! And this is where you
 put the real stuff anyway! And this is where you put the real stuff anyway!
 And this is where you put the real stuff anyway! And this is where you
 put the real stuff anyway! And this is where you put the real stuff anyway!
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Closing
This is the most interesting part is the end.
 This is the most interesting part is the end.
 This is the most interesting part is the end.
 This is the most interesting part is the end.
 This is the most interesting part is the end.
 This is the most interesting part is the end.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Location
Mohali, Punjab slash New Delhi
\end_layout

\begin_layout Telephone
+91 869923041
\end_layout

\begin_layout Signature
Atul Sinh Aurora
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
