#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman ccfonts
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2cm
\headsep 2cm
\footskip 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Research Interests and Motivation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As a child I wanted to discover new laws of nature.
 Upon growing up, my interest shifted to constructing machines that can
 help do everyday chores, which involved programming, electronics and simple
 mechanics techniques.
 Upon learning physics and doing questions from books like Irodov, I became
 interested in physics again.
 It was however only after coming to IISER, my second home, that I took
 seriously the idea of becoming a scientist.
 Initially we're taught all the basic sciences plus pure math.
 I developed a taste for abstract mathematics during that time.
 My first subject for exploration was group theory and symmetry.
 I also looked at knot theory at the time and was surprised to learn its
 relation to quantum computation and elementary physics.
 I learnt eventually that while mathematics was fascinating in its own right,
 I missed physics, the connection to reality.
 That my equations describe nature, I realised was rather important for
 me.
 The following summer, I spent on constructing an experiment whose objective
 was to study the dynamics of spins on a lattice.
 Having enough experience with programming, electronics and simple mechanical
 designs, this project wasn't all that challenging in terms of novelty and
 learning.
 It took a lot of effort however; by the end of it, I was convinced that
 while constructing physics experiments, there's not too much focus on physics
 itself.
 I learnt that I really wish to explore theoretical physics in my remaining
 time.
 By this time, I had entered my masters and chosen physics as the major.
 Physics had never ceased to surprise me, but with solid state physics,
 fluid mechanics, quantum computation, QFT and gauge theories, the standard
 model & beyond, the excitement had pinnacled.
 In my major years, I spent the first summer exploring the simulation of
 quantum physics on a quantum computer.
 This was fascinating for I had independently discovered a small simulation
 protocol, that extended the pure state simulation to that of a mixed state.
 That for me, was the first novel construction of its type.
 However towards the end of it, I felt that I wasn't doing physics.
 I wanted to work on finding new laws of nature.
 In the second summer, I got a scholarship to work in Germany.
 While applying to Germany I was confused between quantum gravity and quantum
 optics and foundations.
 I chose the latter for I felt it is experimentally more accessible, that
 our results can atleast be verified within our lifetime.
 I was able to make some progress and construct a new extension of the Bell
 test.
 In addition to this, I learnt about Bohmian Mechanics (BM) which is a determini
stic theory that describes the same phenomena that Quantum Mechanics does.
 While I was not disappointed with my progress, learnt about exciting research
 directions such as the PR box and information causality, I somehow missed
 the richness of the remaining physics.
 For my master's thesis, I decided to explore BM, a theory in which observers
 play no fundamental role.
 This I felt might eventually make interpretation of 'quantum spacetime'
 more meaningful as a concept.
 For the thesis though, I'm focussing on a more specific problem, viz.
 seeing how BM could be consistent with contextuality; more precisely, I
 want to see how a theory deterministic in position & momentum (q,p) can
 be consistent with a quantum mechanics' test that says (q,p) must be contextual
, if at all they're deterministic.
 This would show the relation between non-locality and contextuality in
 the continuous variable regime, which isn't yet properly understood and
 is of considerable interest.
 The larger goal is to see how spin like discrete degrees of freedom are
 fundamentally different from (q,p).
 Perhaps this would suggest an appropriate understanding of it's extension
 to QFTs and QG.
 I haven't had any formal courses in QG but I am confident that I can pick
 up the essentials in a few months before joining the programme.
 Perhaps naively so, but I'm more inclined towards the loop quantum gravity
 approach, as opposed to string theory.
 I have gleaned that the dynamics of loop quantum gravity is the current
 active area of research with Hamiltonian formulations and the spin foam
 alternative being among the studied approaches.
 I don't suppose I can formulate a research problem at the moment for my
 lack of knowledge about the area, however I hope that my past work supports
 my application to a PhD in this exciting field.
 Needless to say that Max-Planck Institute, AEI is an outstanding centre
 of research and learning (given their spectacular selection of courses).
 More specifically, I must add that I would be grateful to have the opportunity
 to work under the guidance of Prof.
 Daniele Oriti.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
