#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman ccfonts
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2cm
\headsep 2cm
\footskip 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Philosophy Notes
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Week M
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Monday
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Tuesday
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Read from Alex Miller, Contemporary Metaethics (4.1), Norm Supression (5.1).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Gilbert's Contribution: NORM EXPRESSIVISM
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Moral jdugements (like lying is rong etc.), they're a non-cognitive mental
 state (thus not truth evaluable); They express certain kinds of norms that
 we accept.
 (this seems to Murthy to be the most apt way of describing moral jdugements).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Idea of rationality: If something is wrong, lying is wrong for example,
 it only means that I'm rational to be held guildty for that act.
 It's rational for other people to feel angry for that act.
 So rationality here allows you to accept norms; this acceptence entails
 guilt and anger etc.
 (ask how rational).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This seems to suggest that there must be some truth condition; because rationali
ty usually is this way.
 However he is extending the idea of rationality to something else, which
 is non-cognitivie.
 How its applied, is acceptance of norms.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Kant talks about rationality in terms of maxims (rules etc.).
 There rationality amounts to identifying some inconsistency etc.
 The inconsistency can also come, because in some way, there's some sort
 of rule operating.
 He also states that reason commands you to do something.
 He is in this sense defining rationality.
 (what about idea of freedom defined using rationality).
 Here however, the idea of rationality matches still.
 The rule acceptance is...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Hare's response: Non-cognitive
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Interestingly, there'll be always some cognitive aspect in non-cognitive
 theories.
 If th primary component is cognitive, then the theory is cognitive.
 It its not, then, you know.
 This is how he challenges stevenson.
 The use of good has a commendatory aspect.
 And it also has a command aspect also.
 If X is good, then the there's a descriptive part (using some criteria
 you evaluate this), which can change and a prescriptive part (the commondat
 ory aspect of it).
 So stevenson was combining commands with saying it posessed a certain kind
 of emotions.
 Recall there was magnetic component also, which entailed that the language
 has a goading aspect.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Aside: Locution: , Elocultion: How is it stated, eg.
 warning, command (!.? etc.); that can be used by modulation fo voice.
 Perlocutionary aspect: Force by which one is made to act
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So the charge on stevenson was (by Hare) that stevenson confused the perlocution
ary aspect of moral language with morality itself.
 Moral language has two aspects as stated.
 The prescriptive aspect is not the same as perlocution.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Supervenience thesis: If something's commendable (this would come from descripti
ve properties) then something else with same properties will also be commendable.
 So there's some sort of universalizability.
 (why did he mention this?) Once you command, 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Summary: Within non-cognitivism, we studied emotivism (Charlie, came by
 discarding Moore's naturalism); Emotivism gave rise to prescriptivism etc.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Meta ethics: What exactly do moral statements/judgements mean? Are they
 truth evaluable or not?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Egoism
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One obstruction to ethics was relativism.
 Another one is egoism.
 Most of our actions are motivated by self interest.
 It is motivated by self interest only.
 Psychological egoism.
 All actions are (not ought to be) motivated by self interest.
 It's an all encompassing theory.
 It can justify anything.
 This generated another theory.
 It is different from utilitarianism in the sense that there it was utility
 for all, now it is for an individual.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Wednesday
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Egoism (resumed)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Self interest undermines morality.
 Now egoism claims that self interest is drives our action/motivation etc.
 and therefore egoism is what matters and morality doesn't matter.
 There two kinds of egoisms: (i) Psychological and (ii) ethical.
 Psychological Egoism makes a statement (claims, 'are' or 'is') that self
 interest is what drives our actions, viz.
 
\emph on
all
\emph default
 our action is driven by self interest.
 They say that even if we cooperate, we do so to get our interest.
 However, this you can use to defend both alternatives.
 Eg.
 giving charity makes us happy, thus self interest.
 Not giving charity, we save money, self interest.
 Thus it doesn't explain anything, by explaining everything.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
! Observe that most of our motivations arise out of desires.
 If my desires are satisfied, then it entails that this is self interest.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(1) All I do is motivated by my desires (2) All my desires are for the satisfact
ion of my interests
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The argument valid but may not be sound.
 Let's test.
 For hume, no action can arise without desire.
 Kant countered this.
 For instance, staying back on a Sunday out of duty.
 However, for Kant it seems that being rational is desired.
 Thus it may become hard to sepearte reason from desire.
 So much for the first.
 Now let's look at the second premise.
 Say you want to do something and you get something out of it.
 Counter (possible) example is that you have a friend who's unwell and you
 take him to the doctor.
 What self interest could you have? Well, the egoists will say that you
 couldn't see him suffer, you wanted to reduce your suffering of seeing
 him suffer.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ethical egoism says that all your desires ought to take care of your self
 interest.
 Why though? The self interest becomes the basis of morality.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Helping others, intruding into their freedom (talking about countries),
 become permanently dependent.
 Counter is that this doesn't say you shouldn't help.
 Just means that the means of helping is not the best.
 Eg.
 use the Golden Rule, perhaps modified to include helping those that don't
 reciprocate; 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Social Contract Theory
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How do I formulate a law for myself to live together in a society.
 What's the sociological and psychological basis for morality? This is not
 like a scientific discovery.
 You're trying to construct certain laws, where there's an implicit agreement
 in the society.
 Agree to a certain contract, (maybe of historical origins) and if you don't
 abide by it, then you're wrong.
 One thesis is Thomas Bob.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Resources: John Shands --> Fundamental of philosophy | desires | John Shands
 --> Ethics (Egoism)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Week M+1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Monday
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Social Contract theory: We forge an implicit agreement that gives advantage
 to everyone.
 Going against this agreement is immorality.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Question: Why must we agree? Here comes the idea of morality.
 Thomas Hobbs gives the idea of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

state of nature
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 He says that we forge a document and agree to it.
 Eg.
 Legal agreement.
 The terms and conditions are stated to share the burdens and benifits.
 When agreed upon, each party expects the other to abide by it.
 However for everyday tasks, we don't always have written agreements.
 Eg.
 eating in a resteraunt; its implied I'll pay for it.
 Now as far as a social contract theory is concerned, it has neither a written
 agreement, nor is there a restaurant like implicit agreement.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

state of nature
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 [defn: no laws (police etc.), you do what you must], there's some kind of
 conflict.
 Man realizes this (that it's too insecure etc.) and forges an agreement
 for everyone's advantage.
 Why there's this type of agreement? Lets consider two examples.
 One is killing and one is stealing.
 (We're trying to see how morality prohibits me from stealing or killing)
 In the sense of agreement, these are wrong because you also want your posession
s and yourself to be safe.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Note that here we're not looking at equality of humans.
 We're looking at equality of strength.
 If we're equal in strenght, then if I harm, then I can be equally harmed
 by others.
 [historically it lies in ruso and plato; recall socrates being in prison
 and doesn't want to escape.
 He says that's because he has a certain contract.
 He says that its so fundamental that he can't violate it.
 Yet there's another dialogue in the context of justice, in which there's
 a mutual agreement and that's the whole notion of justice.
 He then later tries to counter this, saying there's something more fundamental
 to justice.] 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Criticism: The idea of mutual agreement swamps the idea of concern for others,
 the idea of human inclinations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
So in essence there're two parts.
 (1) Egoism (what's in my best interest) and (2) I don't want 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

state of nature
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Criticism (by Hobs): Who ensures that this contract is maintained? Historical
 (theological basis): There was this idea of divine rights (why kings are
 in power) this view was prevelent.
 This was used to justify morality.
 However Hobs wanted a more secular basis for this.
 Thus he suggested there must be a sovereign power that ensures enforcement
 of these agreements.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Criticism: Free rider problem; if one or two don't follow the agreement,
 then 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

free riders
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 exist.
 Clearly unfair so long as others follow the contracts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
On the 17th we can have a discussion of questions.
 Virtue, meta, natural, Non natural, + (alex miller?), Egosim (shang's book),
 Social Contract theory (Ben)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Tuesday
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The rational choice theories also face the same challenge as what is pointed
 out by Hobs.
 Just because I made an agreement, it may not agree with it, it may cease
 to be in my interest.
 So the idea is that my choice depends on choices made by others.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
This is best illustrated by the prisoner's dilemma.
 A and B are caught.
 Both convicted of stealing.
 Not enough evidence to know which one commited a murder.
 The deal is that (1) if you confess and the other doesn't confess then,
 you walk free ant the other gets hung.
 (2) If both confess, then imprisonment for 5 years each.
 (3) If neither confess, then 2 years each.
 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Now individually, the best situation is that you confess and the other doesn't.
 Overall, both remaining silent is best.
 So now there's a conflict.
 However, the safest choice is to confess (you don't die).
 The idea is that you make that choice, assuming that both make this, then
 deviating from the said choice results in a worse situation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Dilemma illustrates: Interests are forward looking, then I needn't care
 about my agreements (backward looking).
 However you can't enhance your self interest without promise keeping/agreement
 etc.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

This shows that there's a problem with the social contract theory.
 That theory is based on equality of strenghts.
 The contract is between two equals so that it benifits both.
 If there's a weaker person, then he'll submit to me anyway.
 Thus the contract theory is restricted to equals.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Kant on the other hand was saying that this equality is in terms of human
 worth.
 Humanity as an end itself was a kind of rational principle (contrast to
 the rationality used to describe ability to maximizing self interest).
 Thus for Kant, there's a different kind of contract.
 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

This shows that the idea of morality being based on self interest must go.
 Later Kant's idea was used to link to Justice.
 There he (forgot the name) uses the idea of original position where you
 don't know where you'd belong to, you're behind a veil of ignorance.
 You could be a rich person, a poor person, stupid, smart etc.
 He said then the principle of justice will come from this position.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

The main problems were his assumptions; self interest doesn't guarantee
 that you'll abide by the contract.
 The criticims is that this conrtact will not work if the egoist position
 is assumed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The exam is from three to five on the scheduled day.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
