#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{listings}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman ccfonts
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 1cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 1cm
\headheight 1cm
\headsep 1cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Y
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Why Atul?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Interests
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am interested primarily in theoretical physics.
 Having learnt about Quantum Field Theory, I have become interested in unificati
on and quantum gravity
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
even though I haven’t had formal courses on the latter two
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 More recently I have become interested in Quantum Optics, both its theoretical
 and practical aspects.
 Other than the fascination with light (and its quanta, the photon), it
 seems particularly attractive because of its connection with apparently
 diverse topics such as Quantum Field Theory, fundamentals of Quantum Mechanics
 and Quantum Computation & Information all of which I have had the privilege
 of studying in some detail and find interesting in themselves.
 I am especially interested in Quantum Computation itself.
 Building a scalable Quantum Computer being the obvious most interesting
 experimental problem.
 The more specific area of Quantum Simulation had also been a source of
 fascination (and sink of effort).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Training
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I've had courses directly relevant here, including Quantum Computation and
 Information, Quantum Field Theory, Quantum Principles and Quantum Optics,
 Radiative Effects and Renormalization Group in Relativistic Quantum Field
 Theory etc.
 
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
look at the transcript for performance and other details
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I’d even spent a summer exploring Quantum Simulations, together with my
 colleague which was concluded with verification by an explicit simulation,
 a method to simulate Schrödinger’s equation with harmonic potential (as
 was described by a paper), and having independently thought of a way of
 simulating mixed states, exploiting the superposition principle.
 Having said that, I’d mention that am not interested in spending too much
 time writing simulations and doing numerical analysis viz.
 I prefer to solve problems analytically.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Further, I also have laboratory experience in electronics/instrumentation
 and condensed matter.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Why USEQIP?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
IQC has rapidly made a place for itself in the list of elite institutes
 by its quality of work.
 This programme will give me an opportunity to learn the cutting edge developmen
ts in the field, from the very people who've contributed in their creation.
 The ultimate aim is to gain knowledge and contribute to its expansion,
 and IQC's academic environment will catalyze the process.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Summer Research Position
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I don’t have a specific project in mind, but I’d like to work on a topic
 related to foundations of quantum mechanics.
 A possible problem is that of quantum measurement and how it’s dealt with
 in the context of fields, or more specifically quantum optics with annihilation
 operators.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am confident that given an opportunity, I’d be able to make progress in
 solving the problem I decide to explore and contribute constructively to
 the research being performed by the group I’m chosen to work with.
 Working with some of the leading groups of the world at IQC would be a
 valuable experience which would help me pursue my goals beyond the summer.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
