#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman ccfonts
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2cm
\headsep 2cm
\footskip 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Contextuality in a deterministic quantum theory
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Atul Singh Arora 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

(Supervisor: Prof Arvind)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am still in the process of writing my thesis (have 3 months left off of
 the 8 months allocated) and therefore can't submit a table of contents.
 The provisional abstract is as follows.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center

\series bold
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Einstein started with showing that Quantum Mechanics (QM) must be incomplete
 if one assumes (a) realism and (b) locality.
 He wanted us to believe that there must be some theory which satisifed
 both (a) & (b) and can produce the intended results.
 Bell later showed that certain correlations between measurable properties
 must be bounded, given (a) and (b) hold.
 QM he showed violates this and therefore it doesn't satisfy atleast one
 among (a) and (b).
 This was confirmed experimentally.
 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

We start with a theory which satisfies (a) but not (b), while being completely
 identical with QM in terms of experimental predictions.
 Such a theory should exist is by itself rather discomforting.
 Infact, the said theory, known as Bohmian Mechanics (BM), is deterministic.
 Which entails that while it maybe expected that the correlations can arise
 from the explicit non locality in the theory, we explore what happens to
 questions related to contextuality, which roughly asserts that deterministic
 assignment of outcomes is not possible.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
More precisely, it is already known that usual formulations of contextuality
 (and other determinism tests) are for discrete degrees of freedom, viz.
 spins (for massive particles).
 Since Bohmian Mechanics doesn't claim that spins have pre-defined values,
 it is not surprising that both are compatible, yet the analysis is illuminating.
 It sheds light on how non-locality and contextuality are related.
 Further, tests of contextuality maybe extended to phase space (
\begin_inset Formula $q,p$
\end_inset

).
 In this setting then, the tests show that (
\begin_inset Formula $q,p$
\end_inset

) can't be deterministic, roughly speaking, while antithetically, BM is
 infact deterministic in (
\begin_inset Formula $q,p$
\end_inset

)! To explore this apparent contradiction, we construct an appropriate test
 of determinism and analyse it in the framework of BM.
 Various possible extensions are discussed, with their advantages and limitation
s.
 A simplified extension of the Perse-Mermin construction is used to hint
 that BM, despite being a non-contextual hidden variable theory, can violate
 the KCBS inequality, suggesting that we need to refine the notion of contextual
ity.
 The root of the paradox, an innocuous oversight, has been recognized and
 delineated.
 For clarity, the Bell Test is extended to phase space and it is contrasted
 with the aforesaid, where this oversight doesn't cause any significant
 error.
 The analysis, in continuous variables, is further expected to provide insights
 into the relation between non-locality and contextuality, where the current
 understanding is limited.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
